How advertisement/marketing affects business. - Blackcoffer Insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkHow advertisement/marketing affects business.BFSIDerivatives and SecuritiesWhat We ThinkHow advertisement/marketing affects business.ByAjay Bidyarthy-November 19, 20225428We are living in 2022 and everything has changed post the years. The whole world is running on two phenomena, either #technology or marketing. In a simple sense, earlier if we had to buy something our choice was clear with respect to the product, its price, brand, even shops from where to purchase, and more such factors. There were not many alternates and substitutes available in the market for anything. But now the scenario has changed and we could find ample alternates and substitutes available in the market and not only that, even we have alternatives to markets as well. Now we even have a choice among the mode of the market to choose from, i.e. either physical market or virtual market. Simultaneously the competition between the businesses has also risen. So a question arises, in such a competitive and dynamic environment how do businesses sustain themselves?The only solution to this question is ADVERTISEMENT / MARKETING. Marketing plays a very important role in the #success and failure of any company. Marketing philosophy is implemented to attract new and existing customers towards their product/service or company. The very common tool used for marketing is advertising. The basic idea behind advertising is to give customers knowledgeable about the product or service in a very interesting and attractive way.Any company should opt for the advertisement model very judiciously. The advertisement tells customers which product they should buy and which to leave. Advertisement affects businesses in a very crucial way as they decide whether a product is ready to play in long run or not. Most of the products are chosen by the customers because of the advertisement only. If businesses don’t advertise then no one will buy their products. Advertisements are the main reason behind the revenues of a company. There are many ways to do advertise through electronic mediums such as televisions, radio, social media, etc., and paper mediums such as newspapers.Wrong advertisements can be harmful to businesses as they provide information in the wrong manner. Instead of being the needs of people, it becomes unnecessary for the people. This could result in a big loss for the company and may also hamper the image of the company. For example, TATA introduced the Nano car in India to have low price car but its marketing went wrong in the eyes of the public and it got failed.So advertising/marketing affects a business in both positive and negative ways.Blackcoffer Insights 45: Kush Jain, Rukmini Devi Institute of Advanced StudiesTAGSMarkets •ModelPhilosophy •Success •technologyPrevious articleRising IT cities will impact the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2035Next articleNegative effects of marketing on societyAjay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORRising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in FutureInternet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative PathwaysMOST POPULAR INSIGHTSMonday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from...July 29, 2023How to protect future data and its privacy?May 29, 2021Confirmatory Path Analysis (CFA)April 12, 2019React Native Apps in the Development PortfolioSeptember 6, 2021Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSEntertainment Music Player User Analytics and RecommendationsAI/ML and Predictive ModelingFitting Piecewise Growth Models in RHow COVID-19 is impacting payment preferences?
How advertisement/marketing affects business.
We are living in 2022 and everything has changed post the years. The whole world is running on two phenomena, either #technology or marketing. In a simple sense, earlier if we had to buy something our choice was clear with respect to the product, its price, brand, even shops from where to purchase, and more such factors. There were not many alternates and substitutes available in the market for anything. But now the scenario has changed and we could find ample alternates and substitutes available in the market and not only that, even we have alternatives to markets as well. Now we even have a choice among the mode of the market to choose from, i.e. either physical market or virtual market. Simultaneously the competition between the businesses has also risen. So a question arises, in such a competitive and dynamic environment how do businesses sustain themselves?
The only solution to this question is ADVERTISEMENT / MARKETING. Marketing plays a very important role in the #success and failure of any company. Marketing philosophy is implemented to attract new and existing customers towards their product/service or company. The very common tool used for marketing is advertising. The basic idea behind advertising is to give customers knowledgeable about the product or service in a very interesting and attractive way.
Any company should opt for the advertisement model very judiciously. The advertisement tells customers which product they should buy and which to leave. Advertisement affects businesses in a very crucial way as they decide whether a product is ready to play in long run or not. Most of the products are chosen by the customers because of the advertisement only. If businesses don’t advertise then no one will buy their products. Advertisements are the main reason behind the revenues of a company. There are many ways to do advertise through electronic mediums such as televisions, radio, social media, etc., and paper mediums such as newspapers.
Wrong advertisements can be harmful to businesses as they provide information in the wrong manner. Instead of being the needs of people, it becomes unnecessary for the people. This could result in a big loss for the company and may also hamper the image of the company. For example, TATA introduced the Nano car in India to have low price car but its marketing went wrong in the eyes of the public and it got failed.
So advertising/marketing affects a business in both positive and negative ways.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Monday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from...
How to protect future data and its privacy?
Confirmatory Path Analysis (CFA)
React Native Apps in the Development Portfolio
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Entertainment Music Player User Analytics and Recommendations
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Fitting Piecewise Growth Models in R
How COVID-19 is impacting payment preferences?
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
