AI in health and medicine | impact of AI | blackcoffer insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkImpact of AI in health and medicineData ScienceArtificial IntelligenceBlackcofferWhat We ThinkImpact of AI in health and medicineByAjay Bidyarthy-February 11, 202115436AI allows those in training to go through naturalistic simulations in a way that simple computer-driven algorithms cannot. The advent of natural speech and the ability of an AI  computer to draw instantly on a large database of scenarios means the response to questions, decisions, or advice from a trainee can challenge in a way that humans cannot in health and medicineHealth monitoring:Wearable health trackers-like those fromFitBit,Apple,Garmin, and others- monitor health rate and activity levels. They can send alerts to the user to get more exercise and can share this information with doctors.Technology applications andapps encourage healthier behaviorin individuals and help with the proactive management of a healthy lifestyle.AI increases the ability for healthcare professionals to better understand the day-to-day patterns and needs of the people they care, for better feedback, guidance, and support.Medical imaging:Machine learning algorithmscan process unimaginable amounts of information in the blink of an eye and provide more precision than humans in spotting even the smallest detail in medical imaging.  A few of them areBlackford,Zebra,Enlitic,Lunit.The company “Zebra Medical Vision” developed a new platform called profound, which analyzes all types of medical imaging reports that are able to find every sign of potential conditions such as osteoporosis, aortic aneurysms, and many more with a 90% accuracy rate.Digital consultation:For eg,the digital health firm #HealthTapdeveloped “Dr. AI”, and apps like Babylon in the UK use AI to give medical consultations based on personal medical history and common medical knowledge. Users report their symptoms into the app, which uses speech recognition to compare against a database of illness and asks patients to specify symptoms to triage whether they should go to the ED, urgent care, or a primary care doctor.AI robot-assisted surgery: Robots have been used in medicine for more than 30 years. Surgical robots can either aid a human surgeon or execute operations by themselves. They’re also used in hospitals and labs for repetitive tasks, in rehabilitation, physical therapy, and in support of those with long-term conditions.Health chatbots such asBabylon,Ada,and mostly close-ended communications.Machine learning is a type of AI that allows computers to make predictions without being explicitlyProvides formal conceptual Framework for input processing and decision making in diagnosis and managementObjective decision making with less varianceHigh speed and efficiencyUnlock the power of big data and gain insight into patients.Support evidence-based decision-making, improving quality, safety, and efficiency.Coordination care and faster communicationImprove patient experiences and outcomesDeliver value and reduce costsImprove health system performance and optimizationExamples of AI in healthcare and medicine#MICROSOFT: Predictive analysis in vision care#GOOGLE: clinical decision support in breast cancer diagnosis#IBM WATSON: precision medicine in population health managementActionable medical insights:  An ever-increasing amount of medical data are being digitized at all public and private healthcare institutions. However, by its very nature, this kind of data is messy and unstructured. Unlike other types of business data, where traditional statistical methods can be used for quick insights, patient data is not particularly amenable to simple modeling and analytics tools.For eg.-Enlitic, a San Francisco-basedstart-up, has a mission of mixing intelligence with empathy and leverage the power of AI in health and medicine for precisely generating.Therefore, a massive parallel effort to rationalize the legal and policy-making is needed to bring the full benefit of advancement in AI technologies into the healthcare space. As technologies and AI/ML enthusiasts, we can only hope for such a bright future where the power of this intelligence.Blackcoffer Insights 24: Shaffy Garg, Baba Farid college of management and technologyTAGSAdaappleBabylonblackfordFitBitGarminGooglehealthtapIBM WatsonMicrosoftqventusZebra Medical VisionPrevious articleWhat patients like and dislike about telemedicine?Next articleThe future of Fintech AI & blockchain.Ajay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORDatabase Discovery Tool using OpenAIRise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSMarketing Analytics Solution, a Big Data ApproachMay 1, 2019Rise of Internet Demand and its Impact on Communications and Alternatives...August 16, 2023Pharmaceutical Data Power BI ReportMarch 14, 2021Recommendation System for Posts and Articles.June 7, 2021Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSINDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 4.0 – PROS AND CONSE-commerce Store Analysis – Purchase Behavior, Ad Spend, Conversion, Traffic, etc…Analytics in Healthcare IndustrySentimental Analysis on Shareholder Letter of Companies
Impact of AI in health and medicine
AI allows those in training to go through naturalistic simulations in a way that simple computer-driven algorithms cannot. The advent of natural speech and the ability of an AI  computer to draw instantly on a large database of scenarios means the response to questions, decisions, or advice from a trainee can challenge in a way that humans cannot in health and medicine
Health monitoring:
Wearable health trackers-like those fromFitBit,Apple,Garmin, and others- monitor health rate and activity levels. They can send alerts to the user to get more exercise and can share this information with doctors.
Medical imaging:
Machine learning algorithmscan process unimaginable amounts of information in the blink of an eye and provide more precision than humans in spotting even the smallest detail in medical imaging.  A few of them areBlackford,Zebra,Enlitic,Lunit.
The company “Zebra Medical Vision” developed a new platform called profound, which analyzes all types of medical imaging reports that are able to find every sign of potential conditions such as osteoporosis, aortic aneurysms, and many more with a 90% accuracy rate.
Digital consultation:
For eg,the digital health firm #HealthTapdeveloped “Dr. AI”, and apps like Babylon in the UK use AI to give medical consultations based on personal medical history and common medical knowledge. Users report their symptoms into the app, which uses speech recognition to compare against a database of illness and asks patients to specify symptoms to triage whether they should go to the ED, urgent care, or a primary care doctor.
AI robot-assisted surgery: Robots have been used in medicine for more than 30 years. Surgical robots can either aid a human surgeon or execute operations by themselves. They’re also used in hospitals and labs for repetitive tasks, in rehabilitation, physical therapy, and in support of those with long-term conditions.
Health chatbots such asBabylon,Ada,and mostly close-ended communications.
Machine learning is a type of AI that allows computers to make predictions without being explicitly
Examples of AI in healthcare and medicine
#MICROSOFT: Predictive analysis in vision care
#GOOGLE: clinical decision support in breast cancer diagnosis
#IBM WATSON: precision medicine in population health management
Actionable medical insights:  An ever-increasing amount of medical data are being digitized at all public and private healthcare institutions. However, by its very nature, this kind of data is messy and unstructured. Unlike other types of business data, where traditional statistical methods can be used for quick insights, patient data is not particularly amenable to simple modeling and analytics tools.
For eg.-Enlitic, a San Francisco-basedstart-up, has a mission of mixing intelligence with empathy and leverage the power of AI in health and medicine for precisely generating.
Therefore, a massive parallel effort to rationalize the legal and policy-making is needed to bring the full benefit of advancement in AI technologies into the healthcare space. As technologies and AI/ML enthusiasts, we can only hope for such a bright future where the power of this intelligence.

RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Marketing Analytics Solution, a Big Data Approach
Rise of Internet Demand and its Impact on Communications and Alternatives...
Pharmaceutical Data Power BI Report
Recommendation System for Posts and Articles.
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION 4.0 – PROS AND CONS
E-commerce Store Analysis – Purchase Behavior, Ad Spend, Conversion, Traffic, etc…
Analytics in Healthcare Industry
Sentimental Analysis on Shareholder Letter of Companies
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
