What is the repercussion of the environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation? - Blackcoffer Insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkWhat is the repercussion of the environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic...BlackcofferWhat We ThinkHealthcareWhat is the repercussion of the environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation?ByAjay Bidyarthy-June 18, 202014381What is COVID 19 pandemic?On 31st December 2019, a novel coronavirus was identified in Wuhan, China. It spread like wildfire in the world. On 11th March 2020, WHO declared COVID 19 as a pandemic and issued guidelines like Sanitizing hands regularly, wearing masks, and social distancing as viable methods for prevention against this virus.What is social distancing and how is it helpful?Social distancing means staying away from other people. So, to limit human interaction various governments all over the world chose life before the economy and ordered complete lockdown in their countries. All schools, colleges, offices, factories, public places, etc. were shutdown from immediate effect.As of 7th June 2020, COVID 19 confirmed cases worldwide are 69,94,605 with 4,02,453 deaths and 34,20,048 recovered.The USA didn’t impose lockdown in the early stages due to which it has nearly 19,88,545 confirmed cases with a death rate of 5.6% (as of 7th June 2020) whereas in India lockdown was imposed at the first stage, and so we have 2,47,000 confirmed cases with a death rate of 2.8%.Impact on EnvironmentRights reserved to StatistaAs we know it is us, Humans, who keep exploiting nature which has nurtured us and turn a blind eye to the havoc of our misdeeds. Current environmental concerns like depletion of the ozone layer, climate change, soil erosion, air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution, acid rain, noise pollution, loss of biodiversity, and many more are a result of our selfish and never-ending desires for development at the cost of the environment.But when the lockdown was imposed worldwide, our lives just stopped. Air traffic (due to flights) dropped by 95% (Cntraveller). Since no one was allowed to leave homes, Carbon footprint per person dropped significantly. The Hindu newspaper reported a 17% decline in carbon pollution during the pandemic peak. According to an article in Economic Times onMay 14th,2020,Global air quality has improvedthis year due to lockdown.Economic Times posted an article on 8th April2020 titled “COVID 19: All world’s now a zoo, only this time with animals on outside and humans on inside”.This sounds like lock down is good for Environment . Right?Humans are getting what they deserved, animals are safe and the environment is healing due to a reduction in pollution levels.But, NO.All this is just the tip of the iceberg .The reality is that humans, despite being under threat due to COVID 19, cyclones, earthquakes, and locusts attacks are still damaging the environment.According to Voicesofyouth.org:”There has also been an increase in medical waste– much of the personal protective equipment that healthcare professionals are using can only be worn once before being disposed of. Hospitals in Wuhan, for example,produced over 200tons of waste per dayduring the peak of their outbreak, compared to anaverage of fewer than 50 tons prior. “According to Mongabay News: “Despite COVID,Amazon Deforestation is racing higher. The new figures come amid rising fears thatillegal loggers and speculatorsare using the COVID-19 crisis as an opportunityto invade indigenous lands and protected areasin Brazil”.According to an article in Conservation International , an expert said ” In Africa, there has been an alarmingincrease in bush meat harvest and wildlife traffickingthat is directly linked to COVID-19-related lockdowns,decreased food availabilityanddamagedeconomiesas a result of tourism collapses”Apart from the above-mentioned media channels, various other news articles have reported such incidents from various locations around the world.Now, what do you think :COVID 19 has helped the environment for good or just deteriorated it further? Check for yourself.Follow social distancing guidelines . Stay Safe .Blackcoffer Insights 18: Anjali Pal, Lady Shri Ram College for WomenPrevious articleGaming Disorder and Effects of Gaming on Health.Next articleDue to the COVID-19 the repercussion of the environmentAjay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORDatabase Discovery Tool using OpenAIRise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSDo All Social Media Is Owned By Meta?January 17, 2022Deep learning impact on areas of e-learning?May 29, 2021Qualtrics API integration using PythonAugust 5, 2023Ranking customer behaviours for business strategyDecember 31, 2022Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSAn ETL solution for an Internet Publishing firmHow we forecast future technologies?Building a Physics-Informed Neural Network for Circuit EvaluationHow are genetic sequencing maps affected by deep learning and AI?
What is the repercussion of the environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation?
What is COVID 19 pandemic?
On 31st December 2019, a novel coronavirus was identified in Wuhan, China. It spread like wildfire in the world. On 11th March 2020, WHO declared COVID 19 as a pandemic and issued guidelines like Sanitizing hands regularly, wearing masks, and social distancing as viable methods for prevention against this virus.
What is social distancing and how is it helpful?
Social distancing means staying away from other people. So, to limit human interaction various governments all over the world chose life before the economy and ordered complete lockdown in their countries. All schools, colleges, offices, factories, public places, etc. were shutdown from immediate effect.
As of 7th June 2020, COVID 19 confirmed cases worldwide are 69,94,605 with 4,02,453 deaths and 34,20,048 recovered.
The USA didn’t impose lockdown in the early stages due to which it has nearly 19,88,545 confirmed cases with a death rate of 5.6% (as of 7th June 2020) whereas in India lockdown was imposed at the first stage, and so we have 2,47,000 confirmed cases with a death rate of 2.8%.
Impact on Environment
Rights reserved to Statista
As we know it is us, Humans, who keep exploiting nature which has nurtured us and turn a blind eye to the havoc of our misdeeds. Current environmental concerns like depletion of the ozone layer, climate change, soil erosion, air pollution, water pollution, soil pollution, acid rain, noise pollution, loss of biodiversity, and many more are a result of our selfish and never-ending desires for development at the cost of the environment.
But when the lockdown was imposed worldwide, our lives just stopped. Air traffic (due to flights) dropped by 95% (Cntraveller). Since no one was allowed to leave homes, Carbon footprint per person dropped significantly. The Hindu newspaper reported a 17% decline in carbon pollution during the pandemic peak. According to an article in Economic Times onMay 14th,2020,Global air quality has improvedthis year due to lockdown.
Economic Times posted an article on 8th April2020 titled “COVID 19: All world’s now a zoo, only this time with animals on outside and humans on inside”.
This sounds like lock down is good for Environment . Right?
Humans are getting what they deserved, animals are safe and the environment is healing due to a reduction in pollution levels.
But, NO.
All this is just the tip of the iceberg .
The reality is that humans, despite being under threat due to COVID 19, cyclones, earthquakes, and locusts attacks are still damaging the environment.
According to Voicesofyouth.org:”There has also been an increase in medical waste– much of the personal protective equipment that healthcare professionals are using can only be worn once before being disposed of. Hospitals in Wuhan, for example,produced over 200tons of waste per dayduring the peak of their outbreak, compared to anaverage of fewer than 50 tons prior. “
According to Mongabay News: “Despite COVID,Amazon Deforestation is racing higher. The new figures come amid rising fears thatillegal loggers and speculatorsare using the COVID-19 crisis as an opportunityto invade indigenous lands and protected areasin Brazil”.
According to an article in Conservation International , an expert said ” In Africa, there has been an alarmingincrease in bush meat harvest and wildlife traffickingthat is directly linked to COVID-19-related lockdowns,decreased food availabilityanddamagedeconomiesas a result of tourism collapses”
Apart from the above-mentioned media channels, various other news articles have reported such incidents from various locations around the world.
Now, what do you think :
COVID 19 has helped the environment for good or just deteriorated it further? Check for yourself.
Follow social distancing guidelines . Stay Safe .
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Do All Social Media Is Owned By Meta?
Deep learning impact on areas of e-learning?
Qualtrics API integration using Python
Ranking customer behaviours for business strategy
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
An ETL solution for an Internet Publishing firm
How we forecast future technologies?
Building a Physics-Informed Neural Network for Circuit Evaluation
How are genetic sequencing maps affected by deep learning and AI?
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
