Are we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust? - Blackcoffer Insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkAre we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust?BlackcofferWhat We ThinkFuturePredictionAre we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust?ByAjay Bidyarthy-October 23, 202015151One thought always comes to my mind…What if we lived without that dander hanging over our heads?And you all know what is that danger is. For more than 70 years the world has faced the very real threat of nuclear war.Nuclear war is a real and growing threat. The United States and Russia have left critical agreements and treaties, while actively planning to add new types of weapons to their arsenals.Meanwhile, US nuclear policy remains rooted in the Cold War, increasing the risk that nuclear weapons could be used again.It doesn’t have to be this way. With the right policy changes and a commitment to diplomacy, the United States can be a leader in reducing the nuclear threat and we can also help them. But the question arises is what are the activities are being done for the prevention of nuclear holocaust?And they are :Pressuring Congress to support change,Holding the White House accountable through independent research and analysis,Increasing public demand for changing nuclear weapon policies.Now the question is what can we do to prevent a nuclear holocaust?Tell government: Don’t fund a nuclear arms race.Call for investment in public health and public security, not nuclear weapons.Tell government: The United States should never start a nuclear war.Urge presidential candidates to make preventing nuclear war a priority. ACTIVIST RESOURCESnuclear weapons are extremely strong to show the power of a nation. But no one knows the drawback of this attack between the two countries. For example Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the realistic bomb blast explained the blood of each people. The crux of my presentation is that the circumstances surrounding nuclear war call for a new level of commitment by the scientific community to reduce the risk of nuclear war. To generate new options for decreasing the risk, we need analytical work by people who know the weaponry and its military uses. But that is far from enough to do the job. We also need scholars who know the superpowers in-depth; people who know other nuclear powers; people who know third-world flashpoints; people who know international relations very broadly; people who know a lot about policy formation and implementation, especially in the superpowers; people who understand human behavior under stress, especially leadership under stress; people who understand negotiation and conflict resolution people and much more. In other words, the relevant knowledge and skills cut right across all the physical, biological, behavioral, social. International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, World Health, British Medical Association, and the American Medical Association; others have contributed as well. The central point is that a kind of awakening has occurred in the medical community to the responsibility of addressing the immense nature of the threat to public health. At last, I want to conclude that: “ In a nuclear war, except evil force, no one is the winner. Science and humanity become the villain. Everyone knows that but the gamblers want to play their cards. Be aware of the nuclear gamblers “.I hope that soon the world will be full of love and affection and there will be no place for hate and the wars will be held.Blackcoffer Insights 21: Rutika Pagar, C.M.C.S College NashikTAGSnon-violancenuclear free worldpeace of worldwar and conflictPrevious articleWill technology eliminate the need for animal testing in drug development?Next articleAdvanced-Data Analytics, AI, and ML for News and Media CompaniesAjay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORDatabase Discovery Tool using OpenAIRise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSReal-time dashboard to monitor infrastructure activity and MachinesFebruary 26, 2022How AI will change the World?May 29, 2021How does Big Data Help in Finance and the Growth of...July 19, 2021Power BI Data-Driven Map DashboardFebruary 26, 2022Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSKey Audit Matters Predictive ModelingImmigration Datawarehouse & AI-based recommendationsHR Analytics DashboardChanging landscape and emerging trends in the Indian IT/ITeS Industry.
Are we any closer to preventing a nuclear holocaust?
One thought always comes to my mind…What if we lived without that dander hanging over our heads?And you all know what is that danger is. For more than 70 years the world has faced the very real threat of nuclear war.Nuclear war is a real and growing threat. The United States and Russia have left critical agreements and treaties, while actively planning to add new types of weapons to their arsenals.Meanwhile, US nuclear policy remains rooted in the Cold War, increasing the risk that nuclear weapons could be used again.It doesn’t have to be this way. With the right policy changes and a commitment to diplomacy, the United States can be a leader in reducing the nuclear threat and we can also help them. But the question arises is what are the activities are being done for the prevention of nuclear holocaust?And they are :
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Real-time dashboard to monitor infrastructure activity and Machines
How AI will change the World?
How does Big Data Help in Finance and the Growth of...
Power BI Data-Driven Map Dashboard
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Key Audit Matters Predictive Modeling
Immigration Datawarehouse & AI-based recommendations
HR Analytics Dashboard
Changing landscape and emerging trends in the Indian IT/ITeS Industry.
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
