Google fit measure heart and respiratory rates using phone -how

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkHow Google fit measure heart and respiratory rates using a phone camera?Data ScienceArtificial IntelligenceBig DataWhat We ThinkHow Google fit measure heart and respiratory rates using a phone camera?ByAjay Bidyarthy-March 4, 202115260It was in March that Tech giant Google came up with a ground-breaking announcement of Google Fit able to measure one’s heart and respiratory rates using their smartphones. This news spread like wildfire. Instantly became the talk of the town. This feature was said to be available to the Google Fit app exclusively to its Pixel phone users. Google also plans to expand to its other Android devices in the future.This was after Google’s newest endeavor of acquiring the Fitbit for a whopping $2.1 billion. This acquisition not only does steps up a stage for a potential Google Smartwatch but also gives Google the ownerships to Fitbit’shealth business and wealth of data assets.Users just need to place their head and upper torso in view of the front-facing phone camera for those who wish to measure their respiratory rate. For measuring Heart rate the user just has to place their finger on the rear-facing camera lens. Mind-blowing right!Once the measurements have been taken the users simply have to store and save them in the Google Fit app to monitor and track their day-to-day wellness. On asked how it’s measuring these heart rate and respiratory rate, GoogleHealth director of health technologiesShwethak Patel explained that these features rely on the sensors that have been built into the smartphone, such as its camera, microphone, and accelerometer. Thanks to increasingly power sensors even in affordable smartphones and advancements in computer vision, these features let use one smartphone’s camera to track even tiny physical signals like your chest movement to measure your respiratory rate and subtlechanges in the color of your fingerfor your heart rate.Pixel underwent and completed initial clinical trials to validate the algorithm cloud work in a variety of different world conditions and that too with many people while developing the features. Since our heart rate relies on approximating blood flow from color changes in someone’s fingertip, it has to account for factors such as lighting, skin tone, age. Adding to be able to measure heart and respiratory rate soon Google Fit also displays user daily stats such as daily goals, weekly goals, heart points, workout, and also sleep monitor.Blackcoffer Insights 25: Sri Vishnu S, Kristu Jayanti College (Bangalore)TAGSAIBig Data ChallengeGoogleGooglefitHealthcarehealthtechInnovationphonecameraPrevious articleHow to access Amazon Seller Central or Vendor Central data in Power BINext articleHow Python became the first choice for Data Science.Ajay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORRising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in FutureInternet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative PathwaysMOST POPULAR INSIGHTSHow AI will change the World?May 29, 2021Controversy as a Marketing StrategyApril 28, 2020A Leading Hospitality Firm in the USA, Website SEO & OptimizationSeptember 5, 2021Estimating the impact of COVID-19 on the world of workApril 30, 2020Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSBig Data Analytics through IoT in Oil and Gas IndustryKey Audit Matters Predictive ModelingHow Metaverse will change your life?AI Conversational Bot using RASA
How Google fit measure heart and respiratory rates using a phone camera?
It was in March that Tech giant Google came up with a ground-breaking announcement of Google Fit able to measure one’s heart and respiratory rates using their smartphones. This news spread like wildfire. Instantly became the talk of the town. This feature was said to be available to the Google Fit app exclusively to its Pixel phone users. Google also plans to expand to its other Android devices in the future.
This was after Google’s newest endeavor of acquiring the Fitbit for a whopping $2.1 billion. This acquisition not only does steps up a stage for a potential Google Smartwatch but also gives Google the ownerships to Fitbit’shealth business and wealth of data assets.Users just need to place their head and upper torso in view of the front-facing phone camera for those who wish to measure their respiratory rate. For measuring Heart rate the user just has to place their finger on the rear-facing camera lens. Mind-blowing right!
Once the measurements have been taken the users simply have to store and save them in the Google Fit app to monitor and track their day-to-day wellness. On asked how it’s measuring these heart rate and respiratory rate, GoogleHealth director of health technologiesShwethak Patel explained that these features rely on the sensors that have been built into the smartphone, such as its camera, microphone, and accelerometer. Thanks to increasingly power sensors even in affordable smartphones and advancements in computer vision, these features let use one smartphone’s camera to track even tiny physical signals like your chest movement to measure your respiratory rate and subtlechanges in the color of your fingerfor your heart rate.
Pixel underwent and completed initial clinical trials to validate the algorithm cloud work in a variety of different world conditions and that too with many people while developing the features. Since our heart rate relies on approximating blood flow from color changes in someone’s fingertip, it has to account for factors such as lighting, skin tone, age. Adding to be able to measure heart and respiratory rate soon Google Fit also displays user daily stats such as daily goals, weekly goals, heart points, workout, and also sleep monitor.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
How AI will change the World?
Controversy as a Marketing Strategy
A Leading Hospitality Firm in the USA, Website SEO & Optimization
Estimating the impact of COVID-19 on the world of work
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Big Data Analytics through IoT in Oil and Gas Industry
Key Audit Matters Predictive Modeling
How Metaverse will change your life?
AI Conversational Bot using RASA
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
