Python became the choice for Data Science - how | let's know

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkHow Python became the first choice for Data Science.Data ScienceAnalyticsArtificial IntelligenceBig DataBlackcofferWhat We ThinkHow Python became the first choice for Data Science.ByAjay Bidyarthy-March 4, 202116281Data Science is gaining popularity exponentially over the past decade, and thanks to that we are now enjoying better products, recommendations, and smoother life. Data science is an interdisciplinary subject that includes statistics, math, IT, etc.Now there is so much to do in Data Science,  so we need an arrangement where all this can be accessible in one place. It will be very hectic to go to hundreds of different resources while doing analysis or building models. But don’t worry, PYTHON is there for you.Yes, you read it right, Python is ageneral programming languagethat can provide everything you need for Data Science. Several features that have made Python become the choice of data science in past times are:1.Python is a progressively typed language, so the variables are defined automatically.2.Python is more readable and uses lesser code to play out a similar task when contrasted with other programming languages.3.Python is specifically typed. In this way, developers need to cast types manually.4.Python is an interpreted language. This implies the program need not have complied.5.Python is flexible, convenient, and can run on any platform effectively. It is adaptable and can be integrated with other third-party software effectively.Now let’s see why Python become the choice of data science:PANDASThis library available in python makes it very easier to analyze the data, you can read a variety of data sets like CSV, XML, XLSX, JSON, etc. You can perform several operations like Groupby, sorting with the help of easily accessible objects from pandas.NUMPYThis package helps you with any numerical operation that is needed to be performed in Data science, for example calculating Euclidean distance, finding ranks of the matrix, etc.matplotlib AND SEABORNThese are excellent data visualization libraries available in python that produce some excellent visualization like shown here,sklearnIt provides you state of the art machine learning algorithms for your accurate predictive analysis.Scikit–Learnis characterized by a clean, uniform, and streamlined API, as well as by very useful and complete online documentation. It provides a selection of efficient tools for machine learning and statistical modeling including classification, regression, clustering, and dimensionality reduction via a consistent interface in Python.KERASKeras is an open-source software library that provides a Python interface for artificial neural networks. Keras acts as an interface for the TensorFlow library.Kerasis an industry-strengthframeworkthat can scale to large clusters of GPUs or an entire TPU pod.See, Now that you have a variety of resources available here in python, then why go anywhere else. Python I also becoming the world’s most loved and most wanted programming language and it will surely help to get you the job. Data science consulting organizations are empowering theirgroup of developers and data scientiststo utilize Python as a programming language. Python has gotten well-known and the most significant programming language in an extremely brief timeframe. Data Scientists need to manage a large amount of data known as big data. With simple utilization and a huge arrangement of python libraries, Python has become a popular choiceto deal with big data.Seeing the stats we can clearly see that Python has taken over other Languages needed for data science. It has also surpassed R which is exclusively built for Data science. Isn’t this exciting.Python in Data science has empowered data scientists to accomplish more in less time. Python is an adaptable programming language that can be effectively understood and is exceptionally amazing as well.Python is highly adaptable and can work in any environment effectively. Additionally, with negligible changes, it can run on any operating system and can be integrated with other programming languages. These qualities have settled on Python as the top choice for developers & data scientists.So next time you do analysis or work on any Data Science project, feel proud cause you are working with the most loved language of the world.Blackcoffer Insights 25: Divyansh Bobade, LNCT (Bhopal)TAGSAnalyticsData Sciencedeep learningLibrariesmachine learningMatplotlibNumpyPandasPythonseabornSklearnTensorflowPrevious articleHow Google fit measure heart and respiratory rates using a phone camera?Next articleWhat is the difference between Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Statistics, and Data Mining?Ajay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORDatabase Discovery Tool using OpenAIRise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSCallRail, Analytics & Leads Report AlertAugust 30, 2021Problems faced by students in online classes during COVID-19December 7, 2021Artificial intelligence in business: Separating the real from the hypeSeptember 25, 2018Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firmAugust 8, 2023Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSGoogle LSA Ads (Google Local Service Ads) – ETL tools and...Monday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from...Lessons from the past: Some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus...Off-Page SEO
How Python became the first choice for Data Science.
Data Science is gaining popularity exponentially over the past decade, and thanks to that we are now enjoying better products, recommendations, and smoother life. Data science is an interdisciplinary subject that includes statistics, math, IT, etc.
Now there is so much to do in Data Science,  so we need an arrangement where all this can be accessible in one place. It will be very hectic to go to hundreds of different resources while doing analysis or building models. But don’t worry, PYTHON is there for you.
Yes, you read it right, Python is ageneral programming languagethat can provide everything you need for Data Science. Several features that have made Python become the choice of data science in past times are:
1.Python is a progressively typed language, so the variables are defined automatically.
2.Python is more readable and uses lesser code to play out a similar task when contrasted with other programming languages.
3.Python is specifically typed. In this way, developers need to cast types manually.
4.Python is an interpreted language. This implies the program need not have complied.
5.Python is flexible, convenient, and can run on any platform effectively. It is adaptable and can be integrated with other third-party software effectively.
Now let’s see why Python become the choice of data science:
PANDAS
This library available in python makes it very easier to analyze the data, you can read a variety of data sets like CSV, XML, XLSX, JSON, etc. You can perform several operations like Groupby, sorting with the help of easily accessible objects from pandas.
NUMPY
This package helps you with any numerical operation that is needed to be performed in Data science, for example calculating Euclidean distance, finding ranks of the matrix, etc.
matplotlib AND SEABORN
These are excellent data visualization libraries available in python that produce some excellent visualization like shown here,
sklearn
It provides you state of the art machine learning algorithms for your accurate predictive analysis.Scikit–Learnis characterized by a clean, uniform, and streamlined API, as well as by very useful and complete online documentation. It provides a selection of efficient tools for machine learning and statistical modeling including classification, regression, clustering, and dimensionality reduction via a consistent interface in Python.
KERAS
Keras is an open-source software library that provides a Python interface for artificial neural networks. Keras acts as an interface for the TensorFlow library.Kerasis an industry-strengthframeworkthat can scale to large clusters of GPUs or an entire TPU pod.
See, Now that you have a variety of resources available here in python, then why go anywhere else. Python I also becoming the world’s most loved and most wanted programming language and it will surely help to get you the job. Data science consulting organizations are empowering theirgroup of developers and data scientiststo utilize Python as a programming language. Python has gotten well-known and the most significant programming language in an extremely brief timeframe. Data Scientists need to manage a large amount of data known as big data. With simple utilization and a huge arrangement of python libraries, Python has become a popular choiceto deal with big data.
Seeing the stats we can clearly see that Python has taken over other Languages needed for data science. It has also surpassed R which is exclusively built for Data science. Isn’t this exciting.
Python in Data science has empowered data scientists to accomplish more in less time. Python is an adaptable programming language that can be effectively understood and is exceptionally amazing as well.
Python is highly adaptable and can work in any environment effectively. Additionally, with negligible changes, it can run on any operating system and can be integrated with other programming languages. These qualities have settled on Python as the top choice for developers & data scientists.
So next time you do analysis or work on any Data Science project, feel proud cause you are working with the most loved language of the world.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
CallRail, Analytics & Leads Report Alert
Problems faced by students in online classes during COVID-19
Artificial intelligence in business: Separating the real from the hype
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Google LSA Ads (Google Local Service Ads) – ETL tools and...
Monday.com to KPI Dashboard to manage, view, and generate insights from...
Lessons from the past: Some key learnings relevant to the coronavirus...
Off-Page SEO
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
