telemedicine - What patients like and dislike about it | blackcoffer insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkWhat patients like and dislike about telemedicine?BlackcofferWhat We ThinkFuturePredictionWhat patients like and dislike about telemedicine?ByAjay Bidyarthy-January 13, 202115328In today’s world, telemedicine technology is one of those technologies which has brought about a change. Compared to the early days there have been remarkable differences in the methods of consultation with a doctor. In the years that have passed by, consultation for a disease with a doctor was quite hectic. It involved waiting, traveling, etc. But with the advent of telemedicine opportunities, this has completely changed.It is a rural area that has been completely blessed with the invention of telemedicine. Today a considerable amount of people are able to consult doctors remotely. Not just doctors, but specialistsin various fields of medicine.This has been of great importance as far as rural people are concerned. There are a lot of telemedicine tools that have been found. There are a lot of areas likeophthalmology, oncology, dermatology,etc where the facility of telemedicine has been practiced.Most of the patients are truly benefitting from telemedicine. Patients are pretty satisfied with the consultation they are getting. They don’t have to travel now. They can consult doctors and other specialists from remote areas. The cost of consultation has become pretty much affordable. Moreover, they get exposed to highly efficient and qualified experts in the field of medicine.On the other hand, there can be patients who do not fully get satisfiedthrough a virtual consultation. Rather they might feel that they need to have a direct talk with the doctor, which can boost up their confidence and also it helps to maintain a better relationship with the doctor and patient. The patients feel trust when they talk to doctors face to face. Moreover, doctors also might be able to console their patients when they have direct interaction with their patients. There could also be patients who doubt if these virtual methodologies are really trusted worthy or not. It is so because, while the patients have direct contact with their patients, the qualifications are visible to the patients. So there shall be no question of distrust.There are major challenges like better connectivity of the internet, without which the patients will not be able to have continuous interaction with the doctors. Technical glitches may hinder the consultation too. Moreover, emergency situations cannot be addressed beyond a limit through telemedicine.Blackcoffer Insights 23: Miriam sam, Scms school of technology and management.TAGS# patients# specialist# telemedicine technology# telemedicine tools#consultation#doctors#virtualPrevious articleHow we forecast future technologies?Next articleImpact of AI in health and medicineAjay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORDatabase Discovery Tool using OpenAIRise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSImpact of COVID-19 on Engineering and Medical College during this pandemic...December 7, 2021Replacing existing pavement roads, parking lots and sidewalks with pavement made...July 17, 2019Gangala.in: E-commerce Big Data ETL / ELT Solution and Data WarehouseJanuary 16, 2022Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040January 2, 2023Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSImpacts of COVID 19 on Streets Sides Food StallsSupplier Insights and Decision Supports for the eCommerce OutletsAll you need to know about online marketingPython model for the analysis of sector-specific stock ETFs for investment...
What patients like and dislike about telemedicine?
In today’s world, telemedicine technology is one of those technologies which has brought about a change. Compared to the early days there have been remarkable differences in the methods of consultation with a doctor. In the years that have passed by, consultation for a disease with a doctor was quite hectic. It involved waiting, traveling, etc. But with the advent of telemedicine opportunities, this has completely changed.
It is a rural area that has been completely blessed with the invention of telemedicine. Today a considerable amount of people are able to consult doctors remotely. Not just doctors, but specialistsin various fields of medicine.This has been of great importance as far as rural people are concerned. There are a lot of telemedicine tools that have been found. There are a lot of areas likeophthalmology, oncology, dermatology,etc where the facility of telemedicine has been practiced.
Most of the patients are truly benefitting from telemedicine. Patients are pretty satisfied with the consultation they are getting. They don’t have to travel now. They can consult doctors and other specialists from remote areas. The cost of consultation has become pretty much affordable. Moreover, they get exposed to highly efficient and qualified experts in the field of medicine.
On the other hand, there can be patients who do not fully get satisfiedthrough a virtual consultation. Rather they might feel that they need to have a direct talk with the doctor, which can boost up their confidence and also it helps to maintain a better relationship with the doctor and patient. The patients feel trust when they talk to doctors face to face. Moreover, doctors also might be able to console their patients when they have direct interaction with their patients. There could also be patients who doubt if these virtual methodologies are really trusted worthy or not. It is so because, while the patients have direct contact with their patients, the qualifications are visible to the patients. So there shall be no question of distrust.
There are major challenges like better connectivity of the internet, without which the patients will not be able to have continuous interaction with the doctors. Technical glitches may hinder the consultation too. Moreover, emergency situations cannot be addressed beyond a limit through telemedicine.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Impact of COVID-19 on Engineering and Medical College during this pandemic...
Replacing existing pavement roads, parking lots and sidewalks with pavement made...
Gangala.in: E-commerce Big Data ETL / ELT Solution and Data Warehouse
Rise of telemedicine and its Impact on Livelihood by 2040
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Impacts of COVID 19 on Streets Sides Food Stalls
Supplier Insights and Decision Supports for the eCommerce Outlets
All you need to know about online marketing
Python model for the analysis of sector-specific stock ETFs for investment...
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
