Can You Be Great Leader Without Technical Expertise - Blackcoffer Insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkCan You Be Great Leader Without Technical ExpertiseData ScienceAnalyticsBlackcofferWhat We ThinkCan You Be Great Leader Without Technical ExpertiseByAjay Bidyarthy-September 22, 202015183The word “leadership” can bring to mind a variety of images. For example, A political leader, pursuing a passionate, personal cause or An executive, developing his/her company’s strategy to beat the competition. Leaders help themselves and others to do the right things. They set direction, build an inspiring vision, and create something new. Leadership is about mapping out where you need to go to “win” as a team or an organization; and it is dynamic, exciting, and inspiring.In my point of view we cannot become a good leader without technical expertise because every task in the organization it’s required a lot of skills, knowledge, consistent, enthusiastic, patience, motivating, inspiring, industrious, and critical thinking on the basis of the field we are doing. A leader should have the ability to motivate self and others, effective oral and written communication, critical thinking skills at the working team and delegating a task. Good leaders do have these abilities and if we wanted to create a future leader. They need to take in a large volume of information and to take the essential elements that define the core problem to solve. They need to organize a team to solve these problems and to communicate to a group, they need to established trust with a group and use the trust to allow the team to accomplish the work more than it could be done alone. Though all these skills we have but it’s would not sufficient to make us a great leader because to excel and utilize these abilities in practice we need a lot of technical expertise in a particular domain. For example, Like in a hospital if the head of the hospital is lead by other people rather than Doctor then the hospital would become worse at a point because the person from other fields he could not lead and understand the real scenario and mechanism that the hospital is functioning and he would not understand the staff and the patient as well. Hence, to lead the hospital Doctor is deserved who knows his own field how to lead and understand the real scenario of it. That’s why being a leader requires technical expertise to have great knowledge and understanding about his own organization. Every person if they want to become a leader they should have technical expertise on their own organization so that their organization would run smoothly, hence nobody could run other organization if we do not have the technical expertise on that field.So, be a leader, not a boss which makes your life much better, as they’re a saying that “ A good objective of leadership is to help those who are doing poorly to do well and to help those who are doing well to do even better.”Blackcoffer Insights 20: Caldinus Nongrang, NIT MeghalayaPrevious articleOn-Page SEONext articleHow you lead a project or a team without any technical expertise?Ajay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORDatabase Discovery Tool using OpenAIRise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.MOST POPULAR INSIGHTSAd Networks Marketing Campaign Data Dashboard in Looker (Google Data Studio)July 26, 2023Big Data Analytics in HealthcareJuly 19, 2019How AI will help the Defense Power of a country?June 26, 2021The Metaverse and its Implications for our Digital Future.February 3, 2022Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSDescriptive vs Inquisitive vs Predictive AnalyticsRole of Big Data in AcademiaThe Metaverse and its Implications for our Digital Future.Google LSA Ads (Google Local Service Ads) – ETL tools and...
Can You Be Great Leader Without Technical Expertise
The word “leadership” can bring to mind a variety of images. For example, A political leader, pursuing a passionate, personal cause or An executive, developing his/her company’s strategy to beat the competition. Leaders help themselves and others to do the right things. They set direction, build an inspiring vision, and create something new. Leadership is about mapping out where you need to go to “win” as a team or an organization; and it is dynamic, exciting, and inspiring.
In my point of view we cannot become a good leader without technical expertise because every task in the organization it’s required a lot of skills, knowledge, consistent, enthusiastic, patience, motivating, inspiring, industrious, and critical thinking on the basis of the field we are doing. A leader should have the ability to motivate self and others, effective oral and written communication, critical thinking skills at the working team and delegating a task. Good leaders do have these abilities and if we wanted to create a future leader. They need to take in a large volume of information and to take the essential elements that define the core problem to solve. They need to organize a team to solve these problems and to communicate to a group, they need to established trust with a group and use the trust to allow the team to accomplish the work more than it could be done alone. Though all these skills we have but it’s would not sufficient to make us a great leader because to excel and utilize these abilities in practice we need a lot of technical expertise in a particular domain. For example, Like in a hospital if the head of the hospital is lead by other people rather than Doctor then the hospital would become worse at a point because the person from other fields he could not lead and understand the real scenario and mechanism that the hospital is functioning and he would not understand the staff and the patient as well. Hence, to lead the hospital Doctor is deserved who knows his own field how to lead and understand the real scenario of it. That’s why being a leader requires technical expertise to have great knowledge and understanding about his own organization. Every person if they want to become a leader they should have technical expertise on their own organization so that their organization would run smoothly, hence nobody could run other organization if we do not have the technical expertise on that field.
So, be a leader, not a boss which makes your life much better, as they’re a saying that “ A good objective of leadership is to help those who are doing poorly to do well and to help those who are doing well to do even better.”
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Ad Networks Marketing Campaign Data Dashboard in Looker (Google Data Studio)
Big Data Analytics in Healthcare
How AI will help the Defense Power of a country?
The Metaverse and its Implications for our Digital Future.
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Descriptive vs Inquisitive vs Predictive Analytics
Role of Big Data in Academia
The Metaverse and its Implications for our Digital Future.
Google LSA Ads (Google Local Service Ads) – ETL tools and...
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
