future digitalization of healthcare services | management challenges

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkManagement challenges for future digitalization of healthcare servicesWhat We ThinkData ScienceFutureForecastsManagement challenges for future digitalization of healthcare servicesByAjay Bidyarthy-December 2, 202015477Management acts as a guide to a group of people working in the organization and coordinating their efforts, towards the attainment of the common objective.Management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare servicesCHARACTERISTICS for future digitalization of healthcareUniversal: All organizations, whether it is profit-making or not, require management, for managing their activities. Hence it is universal in nature.Goal-Oriented: Every organization is set up with a predetermined objective and management helps in reaching those goals timely, and smoothly.Continuous Process: It is an ongoing process that tends to persist as long as the organization exists. It is required in every sphere of the organization whether it is production, human resource, finance, or marketing.Multi-dimensional: Management is not confined to the administration of people only, but it also manages work, processes, and operations, which makes it a multi-disciplinary activity.Group activity:An organization consists of various memberswho have different needs, expectations, and beliefs. Every person joins the organization with a different motive, but after becoming a part of the organization they work for achieving the same goal. It requires supervision, teamwork, and coordination, and in this way, management comes into the picture.LEVELS OF MANAGEMENTTop-Level Management: This is the highest level in the organizational hierarchy, which includes the Board of Directors and Chief Executives. They are responsible for defining the objectives, formulating plans, strategies, and policies.Middle-Level Management: It is the second and most important level in the corporate ladder, as it creates a link between the top and lower-level management. It includes departmental and division heads and managers who are responsible for implementing and controlling plans and strategies which are formulated by the top executives.Lower Level Management: Otherwise called functional or operational level management. It includes first-line managers, foremen, supervisors. As lower-level management directly interacts with the workers, it plays a crucial role in the organization because it helps in reducing wastage and idle time of the workers, improving the quality and quantity of output.future digitalization of healthcareIn the current day and age, a wave of digitization has taken over the world. All the emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence and others are helping people live better and easier life. The service sector has also benefited a lot from digitization. It got further boost when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the year 2015, launched a campaign known as ‘Digital India.’ Among the various industries in the service sector, digitization has had a massive impact on the operation of thehealthcare and diagnostic industry.It has helped in the development of this industry and enhances life for millions of people. The condition of India in terms of healthcare has been quite grim. Patients who need attention are neglected and are unable to avail proper treatment or diagnosis. However, with the coming up of digitization, there has been hoped for this industry also.According to Dr. Keshab Panda, CEO & MD, L&T Technology Services,there are three trends emerging in the healthcare and diagnostics ecosystem as a result of digitization.1. Value-based healthcareThis is a model of healthcare where doctors and hospitals are paid based on patient health outcomes. The coming up of digital tools in this segment of healthcare can be considered as the starting tool. Dr. Panda further says that the implementation of advanced digital technologies in patient-care domains like-mobile health apps,telehealth, wearables, and remote monitoring can help in enhancing accessibility, boost efficiency and augment the effectiveness of treatment and preventive care.2. New product developmentThe healthcare industry over the past few decades has changed drastically. With the coming of emerging technologies, new surgical procedures and medical devices have been made available.3. ConnectivityWhile talking about connectivity in healthcare, Dr. Panda said that with digitization taking over the industry, it is only a matter of time when with the help of the internet and smartphones, digital healthcare will be everywhere. The internet for once has helped doctors connect to their patients and also with one another. This has helped in enhancing the doctor-patient engagement by increasing their interaction time.Big data aggregates information about a business through formats such as social media, eCommerce, online transactions, and financial transactions, and identifies patterns and trends for future use.For the healthcare industry, big data can provide several important benefits, including:Lower rate of medication errors – through patient record analysis, the software can flag any inconsistencies between a patient’s health and drug prescriptions, alerting health professionals and patients when there is a potential risk of a medication error.Facilitating Preventive Care – a high volume of people stepping into emergency rooms are recurring patients also called “frequent flyers.” They can account for up to 28% of visits. Big data analysis could identify these people and create preventive plans to keep them from returning.More Accurate Staffing – big data’s predictive analysis could help hospitals and clinics estimate future admission rates, which helps these facilities allocate the proper staff to deal with patients. This saves money and reduces emergency room wait times when a facility is understaffed.Challenges  for future digitalization of healthcare1. CybersecurityAlthough ransomware, data breaches, and other cybersecurity concerns are nothing new to the healthcare industry, the 2020 Covid-19 pandemic revealed just how vulnerable sensitive patient health information really is.The recent growth of digital health initiatives- like telehealth doctor visits — is a major contributor to the severe increase in breached patient records. As more healthcare functions continue to move online over the next year, it’s extremely important to ensure these processes are protected from outside threats.2. Invoicing and Payment Processing:Medical practices are citing patient collections as their top revenue cycle management struggle as patients are becoming responsible for a larger portion of their medical bills. In order to help encourage patients to submit payments in a timely manner, providers must adhere to patient payment preferences.To meet patient expectations and improve the user experience, ensure billing statements are patient-friendly. You should offer paperless statements and a variety of payment options (e.g. credit card, etc.) via an online patient portal and utilize the latest payment technologies, such as mobile and text-to-pay. New features like text or email reminders help effectively communicate with patients and encourage them to pay their financial obligations.3. Patient ExperienceThe medical insurance landscape has experienced some significant changes in recent years. As more patients are responsible for a larger portion of their healthcare bill, they naturally demand better services from their providers.Healthcare organizations will face tougher competition in attracting and retaining patients who demand an experience that matches the level of customer service they expect from other consumer brands.They demand a streamlined patient experience so they can “self-service” to resolve most questions, issues, or concerns (e.g., downloading an immunization record, booking an appointment, paying their bills, or checking their account/insurance status) whenever, wherever, and however is most convenient for them.Blackcoffer Insights 22: PRIYAM VERMA AND RIYA MALIKTAGSArtificial IntelligenceBig Data AnalyticsCHALLENGESDECISION MAKINGDIGITAL INDIALEVELS OF MANAGEMENTManagementNEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTSERVICE SECTORtechnologyWORKFORCEPrevious articleIntegrating and Deriving Insights from the Cost of EquityNext articleEmbedding care robots into society and practice: Socio-technical considerationsAjay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORRising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in FutureInternet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative PathwaysMOST POPULAR INSIGHTSGender diversity and Equality in the tech industryAugust 20, 2020Impact of Indian Economy due to COVID-19April 12, 2020Steps to Meta-AnalysisNovember 4, 2019HR Analytics DashboardOctober 3, 2020Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSCOVID-19: How have countries been responding?Incident Duration Prediction – Infrastructure and Real EstateData Integration, ELT with Neo4j Graph DatabaseData Management – EGEAS
Management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services
Management acts as a guide to a group of people working in the organization and coordinating their efforts, towards the attainment of the common objective.Management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services
CHARACTERISTICS for future digitalization of healthcare
LEVELS OF MANAGEMENT
future digitalization of healthcare
In the current day and age, a wave of digitization has taken over the world. All the emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence and others are helping people live better and easier life. The service sector has also benefited a lot from digitization. It got further boost when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the year 2015, launched a campaign known as ‘Digital India.’ Among the various industries in the service sector, digitization has had a massive impact on the operation of thehealthcare and diagnostic industry.It has helped in the development of this industry and enhances life for millions of people. The condition of India in terms of healthcare has been quite grim. Patients who need attention are neglected and are unable to avail proper treatment or diagnosis. However, with the coming up of digitization, there has been hoped for this industry also.
According to Dr. Keshab Panda, CEO & MD, L&T Technology Services,
there are three trends emerging in the healthcare and diagnostics ecosystem as a result of digitization.
1. Value-based healthcare
This is a model of healthcare where doctors and hospitals are paid based on patient health outcomes. The coming up of digital tools in this segment of healthcare can be considered as the starting tool. Dr. Panda further says that the implementation of advanced digital technologies in patient-care domains like-mobile health apps,telehealth, wearables, and remote monitoring can help in enhancing accessibility, boost efficiency and augment the effectiveness of treatment and preventive care.
2. New product development
The healthcare industry over the past few decades has changed drastically. With the coming of emerging technologies, new surgical procedures and medical devices have been made available.
3. Connectivity
While talking about connectivity in healthcare, Dr. Panda said that with digitization taking over the industry, it is only a matter of time when with the help of the internet and smartphones, digital healthcare will be everywhere. The internet for once has helped doctors connect to their patients and also with one another. This has helped in enhancing the doctor-patient engagement by increasing their interaction time.
Big data aggregates information about a business through formats such as social media, eCommerce, online transactions, and financial transactions, and identifies patterns and trends for future use.
For the healthcare industry, big data can provide several important benefits, including:
Challenges  for future digitalization of healthcare
1. Cybersecurity
Although ransomware, data breaches, and other cybersecurity concerns are nothing new to the healthcare industry, the 2020 Covid-19 pandemic revealed just how vulnerable sensitive patient health information really is.
The recent growth of digital health initiatives- like telehealth doctor visits — is a major contributor to the severe increase in breached patient records. As more healthcare functions continue to move online over the next year, it’s extremely important to ensure these processes are protected from outside threats.
2. Invoicing and Payment Processing:
Medical practices are citing patient collections as their top revenue cycle management struggle as patients are becoming responsible for a larger portion of their medical bills. In order to help encourage patients to submit payments in a timely manner, providers must adhere to patient payment preferences.
To meet patient expectations and improve the user experience, ensure billing statements are patient-friendly. You should offer paperless statements and a variety of payment options (e.g. credit card, etc.) via an online patient portal and utilize the latest payment technologies, such as mobile and text-to-pay. New features like text or email reminders help effectively communicate with patients and encourage them to pay their financial obligations.
3. Patient Experience
The medical insurance landscape has experienced some significant changes in recent years. As more patients are responsible for a larger portion of their healthcare bill, they naturally demand better services from their providers.
Healthcare organizations will face tougher competition in attracting and retaining patients who demand an experience that matches the level of customer service they expect from other consumer brands.
They demand a streamlined patient experience so they can “self-service” to resolve most questions, issues, or concerns (e.g., downloading an immunization record, booking an appointment, paying their bills, or checking their account/insurance status) whenever, wherever, and however is most convenient for them.
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Gender diversity and Equality in the tech industry
Impact of Indian Economy due to COVID-19
Steps to Meta-Analysis
HR Analytics Dashboard
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
COVID-19: How have countries been responding?
Incident Duration Prediction – Infrastructure and Real Estate
Data Integration, ELT with Neo4j Graph Database
Data Management – EGEAS
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
