Travel and Tourism Outlook - Blackcoffer Insights

ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Automate the Data Management Process
Realtime Kibana Dashboard for a financial tech firm
Data Management, ETL, and Data Automation
How To Secure (SSL) Nginx with Let’s Encrypt on Ubuntu (Cloud VM, GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode) and Add Domain
Deploy and view React app(Nextjs) on cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Deploy Nodejs app on a cloud VM such as GCP, AWS, Azure, Linode
Grafana Dashboard – Oscar Awards
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
HomeWhat We ThinkTravel and Tourism OutlookFutureFuturistWhat We ThinkTravel and Tourism OutlookByAjay Bidyarthy-June 17, 202014155The UN projects a 20-30% decline in international tourist arrivals in 2020. This could put up to 50 million jobs at risk, with Asia likely to be the most affected continent. But will the good old days of tourism and travel return next year?What is changing?Read on to discover what our robot, Athena, has found on the future of this topic and act accordingly for you, your family and organization in the years ahead. Make notes on issues that could affect you and them as you go.If you are new to foresight, we recommend youview this slide presentation firstto get the best out of this reportSpeed read Athena’s high-level take-outs on the left of each slide, or delve deeper into her findings on the right.AnalysisFor a more detailed explanation of the graphics used in this presentation please clickhere. All outlooks based on the time period 2020-2070 and what’s likely to be happening in 2025 at a 95% confidence level unless otherwise stated. Please contact us for longer-term outlooks.VIDEO SUMMARYTo read more and for a video summary,click herePrevious articleEstimating the impact of COVID-19 on the world of workNext articleIoT, AI, ML to Detect Fire and SmokeAjay BidyarthyRELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHORRising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in FutureInternet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative PathwaysMOST POPULAR INSIGHTSGoogle LSA Ads (Google Local Service Ads) – ETL tools and...July 26, 2023Predictive Modelling, AI, ML Dashboards in Power BIJune 26, 2021A Leading Firm in the USA, Website SEO & OptimizationSeptember 5, 2021Audify Music Player Website in MERN StackMarch 14, 2021Load moreRECOMMENDED INSIGHTSReturn on Advertising Spend Dashboard: Marketing Automation and Analytics using ETL...What is the repercussion of the environment due to the COVID-19...Design and develop PowerShell scriptA web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records
Travel and Tourism Outlook
The UN projects a 20-30% decline in international tourist arrivals in 2020. This could put up to 50 million jobs at risk, with Asia likely to be the most affected continent. But will the good old days of tourism and travel return next year?
What is changing?
Read on to discover what our robot, Athena, has found on the future of this topic and act accordingly for you, your family and organization in the years ahead. Make notes on issues that could affect you and them as you go.
If you are new to foresight, we recommend youview this slide presentation firstto get the best out of this report
Speed read Athena’s high-level take-outs on the left of each slide, or delve deeper into her findings on the right.
Analysis
For a more detailed explanation of the graphics used in this presentation please clickhere. All outlooks based on the time period 2020-2070 and what’s likely to be happening in 2025 at a 95% confidence level unless otherwise stated. Please contact us for longer-term outlooks.
VIDEO SUMMARY
To read more and for a video summary,click here
RELATED ARTICLESMORE FROM AUTHOR
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
MOST POPULAR INSIGHTS
Google LSA Ads (Google Local Service Ads) – ETL tools and...
Predictive Modelling, AI, ML Dashboards in Power BI
A Leading Firm in the USA, Website SEO & Optimization
Audify Music Player Website in MERN Stack
RECOMMENDED INSIGHTS
Return on Advertising Spend Dashboard: Marketing Automation and Analytics using ETL...
What is the repercussion of the environment due to the COVID-19...
Design and develop PowerShell script
A web-based dashboard for the filtered data retrieval of land records
LATEST INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS
Database Discovery Tool using OpenAI
ML and AI-based insurance premium model to predict premium to be charged by the insurance company
Rise of cybercrime and its effect by the year 2040.
POPULAR INSIGHTS CATEGORY
ABOUT US
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com
FOLLOW US
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
