Will technology eliminate the need for animal testing in drug development?
From Complexity to Clarity: Transforming Data into Decisions through Mixed Modelling AWS CodePipeline is utilized for automatically building and deploying Lambda functions in AWS Dockerize the AWS Lambda for serverless architecture Infrastructure Automation AI audio and text conversational bot using livekit AI Receptionist | Voice Call Center | AI Lawyer | AI Sales Representative | AI Representative | AI Doctor | AI Coach | AI... Face Recognition with Deepfills Framework – Deepface Development of EA Robot for Automated Trading The Ultimate Collection of Multimedia Tools for Video Editing & Screen Recording (2024 Edition) Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways AI tools for mechanical engineering, categorized based on their applications Civil engineering AI Tools and Software AI tools and software for Electrical Engineering, categorized based on their applications Chemical engineering AI Tools & AI Software  Imagine yourself as a being who can speak but no one can comprehend you. You are kept in captivity, in a place where you can hardly breathe. You are finally selected and taken out of that place, it is a happy moment for you. You can finally have your freedom but sadly instead of being free, you are prodded by rods and fed toxic substances against your will. The only thing you can do is scream in vain. Your voice is heard by everyone but it gets lost in the noise of scientific advancement. You writhe in pain as the substances take effect on your body, the pain slowly creeps into your body and you slowly succumb to it, never to wake up again. Since the time of Aristotle, animals have been subjected to various inhumane experiments for the sake of knowledge. These experiments though unethical were very necessary for the advancement of science. Animal testing has become an important part of experimenting on living organisms to ensure that a product is safe for humans to consume. The lab animals are generally subjected to high levels of toxicity while being kept in isolation due to which they have to suffer a lot of stress and discomfort. Animal testing has a large number of drawbacks: All of these things make us question ourselves. Is it even worth it? Is it possible to stop this cruelty without hampering our growth? With the advancement in science, it can be made possible that we don’t have to use animals ever again. These bio-printed models can also be used by the researchers to conduct experiments on them without using animals for it. A French company is working on a bio-printed liver model to test liver toxicity without having to use animals at all. This is a breakthrough in the field of bio-technology as it can bring down animal experimentation by a large percentage. These alternatives can help in bringing down animal experimentation to a large extent. If science can progress without harming animals then we should go for it rather than putting them through excruciating pain. We must protect the animals as much as we can or else we would soon be living in a world without them. We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com © All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd