How Data Analytics can help your business respond to the impact of COVID-19?
From Complexity to Clarity: Transforming Data into Decisions through Mixed Modelling AWS CodePipeline is utilized for automatically building and deploying Lambda functions in AWS Dockerize the AWS Lambda for serverless architecture Infrastructure Automation AI audio and text conversational bot using livekit AI Receptionist | Voice Call Center | AI Lawyer | AI Sales Representative | AI Representative | AI Doctor | AI Coach | AI... Face Recognition with Deepfills Framework – Deepface Development of EA Robot for Automated Trading The Ultimate Collection of Multimedia Tools for Video Editing & Screen Recording (2024 Edition) Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways AI tools for mechanical engineering, categorized based on their applications Civil engineering AI Tools and Software AI tools and software for Electrical Engineering, categorized based on their applications Chemical engineering AI Tools & AI Software Before we get into the whole discussion, let’s first discuss the basic working of data analysis. Data analysisis defined as a process of cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to discover useful information for business decision-making. Using data analysis, we can extract useful information from the given data and then take corresponding decisions based upon the analyzed data. During the pandemic known as COVID-19, many businesses failed to grow whereas many touched the sky, for example, the transportation of raw materials was drastically low because: On the other hand, new business/startups got a chance to compete in the market by getting early responses from the companies they wanted to tie up with or from the head of the companies that they wanted investments from. The data analysis can help businesses in many ways such as: Data analysis provides different analytical techniques such as: Using these techniques, businesses can analyze everything and predict almost anything. These techniques, tools, and models, can help businesses tackle this horrendous situation that is COVID-19. We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com © All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd