Embedding care robots into society and practice: Socio-technical considerations
From Complexity to Clarity: Transforming Data into Decisions through Mixed Modelling AWS CodePipeline is utilized for automatically building and deploying Lambda functions in AWS Dockerize the AWS Lambda for serverless architecture Infrastructure Automation AI audio and text conversational bot using livekit AI Receptionist | Voice Call Center | AI Lawyer | AI Sales Representative | AI Representative | AI Doctor | AI Coach | AI... Face Recognition with Deepfills Framework – Deepface Development of EA Robot for Automated Trading The Ultimate Collection of Multimedia Tools for Video Editing & Screen Recording (2024 Edition) Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040. Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways AI tools for mechanical engineering, categorized based on their applications Civil engineering AI Tools and Software AI tools and software for Electrical Engineering, categorized based on their applications Chemical engineering AI Tools & AI Software Care Robots, as the name suggests, are robots that are used for hospitality purposes like fetching water, cracking jokes and keeping a patient in good harmony, etc. The senior care industry has been at the forefront for quite a period. The reason being, Nuclear families becoming very busy in their schedule that one day when the parents of this nuclear family areold, children are nowhere to take care of. Instead, nursing homes have become a trend.  Parents with mental illness are being put in rehab. As observed for a few decadesrobots are taking care of many activitiesand they are even dominating a few fields like the automobile industry. So, Machines can indeed help humankind in achieving remarkable success in many fields. Do senior citizenslove machines?, You should look at them when they watch TV when they love to play video games on a smartphone. So, If we give them a human-like structure with the ability of a smartphone to make these people happy then it would be quite a monstrous feat. We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise. Contact us:hello@blackcoffer.com © All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd